Database : 


	Data : raw fact 
	Information : processed data or meanigful data 
	Database : It is used to store the data and information in a proper manner 

	A database is a collection of data that is organized such that its contents can be 
	easily accessed, managed and updated.

	
	Data Management: 
		deals with managing large amount of info and the provision of mechanisms for the 
	manipulation of information.  
		
	2 different approaches of managing data are : 
			1. File based systems
			2. Database systems

	
	1. File based system 1-3 
		features : 
			1. Systems in which data was stored in discreete files. 
			2. in this system, bunch of files was stored on a comp and could be 
			accessed by a computer operator. 


	2. File based system 2-3 
		
	3. File based systems 3-3 

	disadvantages : 1. Data redundany and Inconsistency 
			2. Unanticipated Queries 
			3. Concurrent Access Anomalies 
			4. Security, Integrity Problems 
					

	CRUD operations 

	Database systems : 
			Advantages : 
				1. The amount of redundancy in the stored data can be reduced. 
				2. No more inconsistencies in data 
				3. The stored adta can be shared 
				4 . Standards can be set and followed 
				5. Data Integrity can be maintained 
				6. Security of data can be implemented 


	DBMS :	
		collection of related records and a set of programs that access and manipulate these records 
	
	Database models : 
		1 . Databases can be differentiated based on functions and model of the day a. 
		2. A data model describes a contaiiner for storing data and the process of storing and retrieving
		data from that container. 

	a. Hierarchical model
	b. Network model
	c. Relational model 


	table : Employee
			columns : Id, Name , salary 

	Id 		Name		Salary 
	1		Raj		12000 ---> row 
	2 		Seeta		14000 ---> row 


	Flat-file data model : db consists of only 1 table or file 
	Hierarchical Model : 1. Records are inter-related through hierarchical or tree like structures .
	
	Database models 4-5 
	-Network Data model : 
		1. similar to Hierarchical Data model 
		2. subset of the network model 
		3. uses set theory to provide a tree-like hierarchy with the exceotion that child tables were allowed to have more than one parent.
	4. Data is tored in sets,instead of the hierartchical tree format.this solves the prolem of data redundancy. 
	
	SQL ; 
		subtype : 
		1. DQL or DRL (Data query language or Data retrieval lang) 
		2. DML (Data Manipulation Lang) 
		3. DDL (Data definition lang) 
		4. TCL (Transactional control)
		5. DCL (Data control lang)

	










	DBMS 
	RDMS 